So v-model.
This is one of my favorites.
I love v-model.
You got to have a favorite.
It creates a relationship between
the data and the instance or
component in a form input so
you can dynamically update values.
A lot of what we do in front end
development has to do with building forms.
[LAUGH] So this allows us to capture
form inputs or capture differences
between v-model inputs or text areas or
things like that very quickly.
It's called two way binding.
So we're accepting user input and
managing it in a responsible manner.
We saw that message before
that we're returning in data.
And we're saying this is
a good place to type things.
That's what we're starting with.
So if I have a typical text area here,
this is actually just plain
HTML aside from the v-model.
So we've got text area, class, rows,
max length, that's a typical text area.
And we have this v-model message
that is establishing a relationship
between what we're holding in data and
what we're kind of gathering
from the user in that text area.
And here we can output that
onto the page in this p tag.
So we've got these mustache templates
where we can output it to the page.
So here if we have this demo,
where we say, hello there everyone, and
I say I like tacos, and
then you can see it directly outputting
to the page very, very quickly.
I can type anything, and it's storing that
data and outputting it as soon as I type.
I didn't have to set state anywhere.
I didn't have to gather anything about it.
I didn't have to ping anything in
order to find that information.
So I just say, message,
hello there everyone, and I mount the app.
And then in that text area,
I established a relationship with message.
So that means we can do really crazy
things like I could do something like
this, where I say write me, and
then all of a sudden things scatter onto
the page as I type things, or I can say, I
like tacos, and I'm not afraid to show it.
And I can erase this and
write it, and you already know how
half of that demo was created.
And in a little bit, you'll know how the
other half is created, because we'll go
into an animation section that shows how
to do enter and leave animations as well.
Tada, cool.
All right.
So if we wanted to do something
other than a textbox,
let's say we wanted to do checkboxes or
radio buttons or
something like that, what we would do
is we'd make Checkednames an array.
And then we add that v-model to every
input that we want to add to that array.
So I can say, John, Paul, George,
Ringo, and take them off as well.
And so if we go into our dev tools here,
if we go into code pen,
and then we can actually look
at this in the view dev tools.
We have our root,
we have our Checkednames array.
And as I click on these, you can
see things appending to that array.
Cool.
Now let's say you don't know how many
of these items that you're gonna
wanna put on the page.
Let's say I'm a really big Beatles fan,
and I'm super hard core,
and I think, well,
actually Pete Best was the fifth Beatle.
So then I could come in here,
and I could add another value.
And I could say Pete, and
it's automatically appended,
because what I did was I used
that v4 that we saw earlier, and
I'm looping through these options.
And I'm establishing a relationship
with those Checkednames.
And we're about we're about to
cover this bind right here.
So we're binding to the value, and
then I'm able to just keep updating that.
So that means I don't have to
keep on copy, pasting inputs and
labels and things like that.
I can actually just dynamically create
them from whatever happens on the server.